
Robert Finale 浪漫写意油画作品 Memories at Rockefeller - Robert Finale 温馨圣诞油画

Robert Finale

The powerful and captivating works of the artist, Robert Finale, flow naturally from a deep-rooted passion and God given talent for capturing the intrinsic beauty in humankind and nature. Finale’s work on canvas is heartwarming and peacefully enchanting. His distinctive style is a colorful blend of impressionistic romance and realistic beauty, mostly in historic settings.

His paintings transport you to a time and place of private charm, a haven of pure and quiet delight. Robert loves to explore the complex interplay of light and its effects on architecture and surroundings. An avid traveler, Robert Finale uses his photographs, sketches and memories simply as the starting point, an inspiration on the journey to the creation of each masterpiece.

The artist, Robert Finale, is no stranger to struggles and adversity. At the tender age of two, he along with his family fled the communist ruled country of Cuba for a life of freedom and opportunity in the United States. Here Robert learned the value of hard work and discipline and realized his potential to pursue his passion for art. This passion, Finale explains, began very early in life.

As a young boy of five, Robert Finale was seldom without a pencil and sketchpad in hand, sketching everything from movie scenes to family vacation destinations. Robert's love for brushing oil onto canvas came much later, when his early childhood sketch were brought to life in a special gift to his wife. From humble beginnings, today his paintings grace several Galleries all over the world. The first, however, has a special place in his family home.

Robert Finale's images originate from his childhood sketches, which his mother always lovingly treasured and encouraged him to keep. Each painting is a journey of unspoken words and hidden whispers of freedom, nurturing the hopes and dreams that exist within all of us. These feelings are resurfaced and unveiled through beautiful city images in romantic surroundings placing the viewer in the dream world of unconscious thought.

A quiet, gentle natured man, Robert Finale uses his paintings to communicate with each individual person. Using rich colors and textures, Finale has developed his own rich vocabulary in a painting. Expressing this rich language through places and entities allows him to tap into his own world and the fragile emotions that exist within all of us. The emotion that a person feels upon examining a piece of art is the beauty of this communication. As Robert places the final brush stroke on the canvas he is conscious of the fact that art is a universal language. Therefore, one canvas represents the window to millions of different emotions that have existed and exist through all of us, giving the viewer a powerful, tool to look within his own world, for the understanding of life’s journey.
